[MARKET REGIME: COMPUTING...]

MIROFISH BRIEFING — 2026-04-16 16:35 UTC
============================================================

HEADLINE: ManpowerGroup (MAN) Q1 2026 Earnings Transcript
SOURCE: Yahoo Finance
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/manpowergroup-man-q1-2026-earnings-151803802.html

Oops, something went wrong Image source: The Motley Fool. Thursday, April 16, 2026 at 8:30 a.m. ET Chief Executive Officer — Jonas Prising Chief Financial Officer — John McGinnis President and Chief Strategy Officer — Becky Frankiewicz Jonas Prising. Sir, you may begin. Jonas Prising:Good morning, and thank you for joining us for our first quarter 2026 conference call. our Chief Financial Officer, Jack McGinnis; and our President and Chief Strategy Officer, Becky Frankiewicz, are both with me today. For your convenience, our prepared remarks are available in the Investor Relations section of our website at manpowergroup.com. I'll begin with a brief overview of the quarter, including how we're seeing conditions evolve across our markets, and then I'll share a few updates on how we're positioning Manpower Group to win in any environment. Becky will then provide an update on how we are driving commercial excellence and the opportunities for capturing with the eye, followed by Jack who will walk through the detailed financial results and our guidance for the second quarter of 2026. I'll close with a few comments before we open the line for Q&A. And Jack will now cover the safe harbor language. John McGinnis:Good morning, everyone. This conference call includes forward-looking statements, including statements concerning economic and geopolitical uncertainty, which are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on management's current expectations or beliefs. Actual results might differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Slide 2 of our earnings release presentation further identifies forward-looking statements made in this call and factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially and information regarding reconciliation of non-GAAP measures. Jonas Prising:Thanks, Jack. Our Q1 results reflect disciplined execution and continued stabilization of revenue trends across key markets. In the first quarter, we delivered reported revenues of $4.5 billion representing an organic constant currency growth of 3%. System-wide revenue, which includes our expanding franchise revenue base, was $5 billion. Adjusted EBITDA margin of 1.4% reflects improving demand trends as well as P&L leverage. We're also encouraged that top line growth exceeded our expectations, reflecting strong execution of our commercial initiatives. We are expanding our new business pipeline, increasing client engagement and continue to win in the areas where growth is strongest and most resilient. At the same time, the manufacturing environment is strengthening, particularly across Europe. Taken together, this is enabling us to drive continued momentum across the portfolio with strong manpower performance among key markets, including France, U.S. and Italy. We're also seeing stable underlying trends in Experis and solid performance in talent solutions, Papin MSP and Right Management, even as RPO remains more challenged. Our diversified portfolio, global scale and specialized brand expertise continue to position us well to win in the marketplace. As we move down the P&L, we have continued our relentless focus on driving operating leverage. During Q1, we reduced SG&A as adjusted by 4% in constant currency, while delivering continued top line growth reflecting the impact of our ongoing efficiency efforts, something I'll share more detail on shortly. Finally, we're closely monitoring developments related to the conflict in the Middle East. While it is still too early to assess if there will be a broader impact, like many global companies, we have become accustomed to navigating a fast-changing environment that includes geopolitical developments, alongside economic and labor market shifts. In the meantime, we have been focused on staying close to our clients and their evolving needs while managing the business with discipline. Against this backdrop, we're encouraged by the developing short-term momentum and equally excited by the long-term market opportunity. This is supported by improving business confidence in the U.S. as evidenced by the increase in CEO confidence reported by the conference board, rising manufacturing PMLA in the U.S. and Europe and strong business resilience. As conditions improve, we expect sustainable organic revenue growth to build progressively. Our intent is to be the architects of our own future and to proactively take actions that will position Manpower Group to lead the industry, win in any environment and drive long-term value creation. We are transforming our business model to drive growth and expand margins over time. As part of this commitment, we are announcing a transformation initiative that will reimagine how we operate and deliver value to our clients and candidates and provide significant cost optimization. Over the past year, we have been doing significant planning to launch this work, and we are pleased to share more details with you today. We have made targeted investments in automation and AI and build a modern global technology infrastructure, including our PowerSuite platform, which now serves as the backbone of our digitization strategy. With nearly 90% of our global business operating on this platform, we have created a unified technology stack with access to global data across all of our global businesses, enabling us to operate at the unique data scale, strengthen our insights and be better partners to our clients. As a result of these investments, we are launching a strategic global transformation program that we expect will deliver in permanent cost savings in 2028. There are 2 major components to our plan. The first, which I've talked about before, is the complete redesign of our back office operation, which is progressing well. The second is taking best practices and key learnings from our back-office transformation and executing a similar program for the front office. These redesign processes will be industry-leading and enable us to execute more effectively and move faster to fill roles. In addition to reducing our cost structure, this transformation will improve both client and candidate experience, positioning our brands to win in market share and better serve clients in a highly fragmented marketplace. We have begun this work in North America, redesigning end-to-end processes, embedding automation and AI where it simplifies work, creating best-in-class local world blueprints before extending globally. The goal is clear: Connect more people to work by selling more orders to drive growth while structurally lowering our cost to serve. I am also pleased to announce that we have recently hired a dedicated Chief Enterprise Transformation Officer who has joined our executive leadership team to drive the execution of this plan across the enterprise. At the same time, we continue to thoughtfully review our global portfolio to ensure that we have the right mix of businesses and brands across key markets. Prioritizing investments in core, higher return opportunities while evaluating opportunities to divest noncore assets to strengthen our financial position and support our long-term growth and margin ambitions. Ultimately, these actions will accelerate our path back to our historical margin profile and create a structural cost basis to expand margins further over time. Now before I hand it over to Becky, let me just say one more time how excited we are about the transformation underway to improve efficiency, reduce costs and create capacity to invest in growth. Core elements of this transformation is building new capabilities that align with where the market is heading. And this includes evolving how we bring innovative service to market, particularly with AI. We're also encouraged by the immense opportunities AI is creating as it enables us to shape the future of our industry, including how it is influencing client behavior and how they buy more for solutions. This shift creates a meaningful opportunity for us to evolve our business model so that AI becomes a sustainable tailwind by operating in new ways and developing new products for our clients. And with that context, let me turn it over to Becky to go deeper into our commercial initiatives and how we are leveraging AI. Becky Frankiewicz:Thank you, Jonas. Last quarter, I shared that my remit is focused on driving commercial excellence strengthening and expanding our core capabilities and accelerating AI across the business. Today, I am pleased to share more on how we are embedding AI as a growth multiplier and we'll highlight where AI is already driving measurable value in 3 areas: unlocking effective commercial scale, creating new ways to deliver a best-in-class talent experience and finally, monetizing new human plus agentic solutions for our clients through strategic AI partnerships. Let me start with how we are embedding AI into our processes to unlock effective commercial scale. The teams can focus on coverage where sales conversion and revenue impact are the highest. We expect this incremental revenue to increase significantly as we scale. Second, let me share how we are creating a differentiated talent experience. One that is critical to attracting and retaining the skilled associates and consultants our clients value most. To strengthen our talent experience, we recently announced an expansion of our PowerSuite technology platform to include our partnership with hubert.ai to deliver AI-powered screening and interview experiences. In the past 6 months, we've completed over 25,000 AI-led interviews and reduced screening time by 67%. The Automating early-stage interviews helps improve fill rates and time to hire and freeze our recruiters and talent agents to focus on higher-value relationship-driven work. At the same time, we are achieving 87% candidate satisfaction as more than half of this activity takes place outside of traditional working hours, meeting talent when and where works for them. These responsible, transparent AI capabilities now support markets, representing 40% of our global revenue with plans to scale to 70% by year-end. And third, monetization. I am delighted to share how we are bringing AI capabilities to market and creating a future where people can build more impactful careers and where companies can achieve greater profitable growth. Human plus agentic workforces are not a future concept. They are already here. In March, we announced a breakthrough partnership with Sound hold AI, a global leader in voice and conversational AI. Our Experis U.S. business is already helping companies across industries to review and redesign workflows and accelerate the adoption of AI and intelligent automation. This is the lead offering in our Accelerate AI services suite built on a simple and powerful premise that humans and agents can deliver more when working side by side. This partnership expands our presence in the human plus AI space, which is central to our strategy. We are starting in the U.S. to drive scale and market leadership and plans expand globally. Finally, we know we capture the impact of AI by ensuring that our teams are equipped to use it. We are pleased that tens of thousands of our employees around the world. have completed AI fundamentals training and over 80% of our workforce is already using AI in their workflows. Our approach is simple. Automate which should be automated, augment what should stay human and create entirely new ways to deliver workforce solutions to our clients. We are in progress to capture the full value of these initiatives and we expect AI to become an increasingly meaningful driver of growth, productivity and differentiation over time. We look forward to continuing to update you on our strategic progress and how we will move at pace. I will now turn it back over to Jack. John McGinnis:Thanks, Becky. I'll quickly first touch on the headline quarterly results, and I'm excited to give more details on our expanded transformation savings, Jonas announced at the beginning of the call. In the first quarter, we delivered reported revenues of $4.5 billion. System-wide revenue, including franchises was $5 billion. Our first quarter revenue results represented constant currency growth of 3%. The U.S. dollar reported revenues after adjusting for currency impacts, came in at the top of our constant currency guidance range. I will talk more about the revenue trend drivers in the business and geographic segment summaries. Gross profit margin came in below the low end of our guidance range, driven by lower bench utilization in Europe and mix shifts impacting staffing margin, while permanent recruitment came in as expected with sequential improvement. As adjusted, EBITDA was $61 million, representing a 5% increase in constant currency compared to the prior year period. As adjusted, EBITDA margin was 1.4%, up 10 basis points year-over-year and came in at the midpoint of our guidance range. Organic days adjusted constant currency revenue increased 3% in the quarter, which was favorable to our midpoint guidance range of 1% growth. Coming back to our transformation programs that Jonas referenced, we are excited to announce our path to expected savings of $200 million in 2028. We have previously discussed the implementation of our leading cloud-enabled power suite front and back-office technology platforms. These platforms are now being complemented with best-in-class end-to-end processes. We started with back office processes and are flipping to run rate savings in IT and finance costs during 2026, which build through 2028, representing 25% of the total cost savings. The strategic transformation will expand to the rest of the world in 2027 to drive expected net savings in 2028. The front office transformation, like the back office will include standardized processes, infused with leading automation and Agentic AI across all major businesses driving significant structural savings. We will continue to break out restructuring and strategic transformation program charges as we progress the program. We expect the ongoing 2026 run rate of these charges to be lower than the first quarter amount and estimate a range of $10 million to $15 million on average per quarter through the end of the year. Moving to the EPS bridge. Reported earnings per share for the quarter was $0.05. Adjusted EPS was $0.51 and came in just above our guidance midpoint. Walking from our guidance midpoint of $0.50. Our results included a slightly lower operational performance of $0.02 and a slightly lower tax rate, which had a positive $0.01 impact. A foreign currency impact, it was $0.01 worse and improved interest and other expenses, which was $0.03 better than our guidance. Restructuring costs and strategic transformation program costs represented $0.46. Next, let's review our revenue by business line. Year-over-year, on an organic constant currency basis, the Manpower brand had strong growth of 6% in the quarter, up sequentially from the 5% growth in the fourth quarter. The Experis brand declined by 9%, an expected decrease from the 6% decline in the fourth quarter, largely driven by the timing of health care IT projects in the U.S. The Talent Solutions brand declined by 1%, an improvement from the fourth quarter decline of 4%. Within Talent Solutions, our RPO business continues to experience a sluggish permanent hiring environment, but did see sequential revenue trend improvement. Our MSP business saw continued revenue growth and Right Management also grew during the quarter. Looking at our gross profit margin in detail, our gross margin came in at 16% for the quarter. Staffing margin contributed a 70 basis point reduction due to mix shifts in bench utilization in the first quarter. Permanent recruitment activity resulted in a 20 basis point decline. Other services resulted in a 20 basis point margin decrease. Moving on to our gross profit by business l

[BRIEFING TRUNCATED — TOKEN_BUDGET REACHED]
