[MARKET REGIME: COMPUTING...]

MIROFISH BRIEFING — 2026-04-17 00:02 UTC
============================================================

HEADLINE: Hedge Funds Are Shorting the U.S. Dollar So Make This 1 Trade Now
SOURCE: Yahoo Finance
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/currencies/articles/hedge-funds-shorting-u-dollar-151923481.html

Oops, something went wrong June British pound futures (B6M26) present a buying opportunity on more price strength. See on the daily bar chart for the June British pound futures that prices are now trending up and have just hit a two-month high. See, too, at the bottom of the chart that the moving average convergence divergence (MACD) indicator is in a bullish posture as the blue MACD line is above the red trigger line and both lines are trending up. Bulls have the near-term technical advantage. Analysts Hike Their Micron Estimates, Pushing MU Stock Price Targets Higher How to Buy Nvidia Stock for a 27% Discount or Achieve an 8% Annual Return Heavy, Unusual Volume in Amazon Options Ahead of Earnings in Two Weeks Our exclusive Barchart Brief newsletter is your FREE midday guide to what's moving stocks, sectors, and investor sentiment - delivered right when you need the info most. Subscribe today! Fundamentally, the U.S. dollar ($DXY) has lost its luster in the foreign exchange market, withBloombergthis week reporting the big hedge funds are now starting to short the greenback. Meantime, the U.K. economy and government are stable. A move in the June British pound futures above chart resistance at 1.3588 would become a buying opportunity. The upside price objective would be 1.3900 or above. Technical support, for which to place a protective sell stop just below, is located at 1.3450. IMPORTANT NOTE: I am not a futures broker and do not manage any trading accounts other than my own personal account. It is my goal to point out to you potential trading opportunities. However, it is up to you to: (1) decide when and if you want to initiate any trades and (2) determine the size of any trades you may initiate. Any trades I discuss are hypothetical in nature. Here is what the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) has said about futures trading (and I agree 100%): Trading commodity futures and options is not for everyone. IT IS A VOLATILE, COMPLEX AND RISKY BUSINESS. Before you invest any money in futures or options contracts, you should consider your financial experience, goals and financial resources, and know how much you can afford to lose above and beyond your initial payment to a broker. You should understand commodity futures and options contracts and your obligations in entering into those contracts. You should understand your exposure to risk and other aspects of trading by thoroughly reviewing the risk disclosure documents your broker is required to give you. On the date of publication, Jim Wyckoff did not have (either directly or indirectly) positions in any of the securities mentioned in this article. All information and data in this article is solely for informational purposes. This article was originally published onBarchart.com Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Sign in to access your portfolio

---

HEADLINE: The Bulls Are Back in Control: Buy These 3 ETFs Now
SOURCE: Yahoo Finance
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/bulls-back-control-buy-3-152040658.html

Oops, something went wrong If you go by the new 52-week highs and lows from Tuesday’s trading, the bulls are back in control. Yesterday, the bulls flipped the switch. For the first time in a long time, the new 52-week highs on both the NYSE and the Nasdaq easily outnumbered the new 52-week lows. Analysts Hike Their Micron Estimates, Pushing MU Stock Price Targets Higher How to Buy Nvidia Stock for a 27% Discount or Achieve an 8% Annual Return Heavy, Unusual Volume in Amazon Options Ahead of Earnings in Two Weeks Stop Missing Market Moves: Get the FREE Barchart Brief – your midday dose of stock movers, trending sectors, and actionable trade ideas, delivered right to your inbox. Sign Up Now! I don’t know how long this will last, but it suggests the markets have calmed — the VIX nearing 18 provides some confirmation. But as we’ve learned in 2026, things can change on a dime, so govern yourself accordingly. Back to the new 52-week highs and lows. On the NYSE, the highs were 126, 14 times the lows, while on the Nasdaq, the highs outnumbered the lows by 289 to 65. Based on the bullish data, today’s piece will be about a momentum play worth riding for the remainder of 2026 and into 2027. Small caps have been on my radar since late 2023. While I was clearly too early to the party, the past year has shown they’re a force to be reckoned with and something worth including in your investment portfolio. Yesterday, three First Trust small-cap ETFs hit new 52-week highs. I’ll decide which of the three is the best buy for long-term investors seeking small-cap exposure. The First Trust Small Cap Core AlphaDEX Fund (FYX)tracks the Nasdaq AlphaDEX Small Cap Core Index, a collection of small-cap stocks selected from the Nasdaq US 700 Small Cap Index, using the AlphaDEX stock selection methodology. The process combines growth factors, including price appreciation and sales growth, with value factors such as book-to-price, cash flow-to-price, and return on assets. Each of the 700 stocks is given a growth score and a value score based on the above and other factors. They divide the 525 highest-scoring stocks into five equal groups based on rank. The best-ranked groups receive greater weight in the index, and all stocks within each group are weighted equally. The index is updated and rebalanced every quarter. First Trust launched the ETF in May 2007; it has $1.15 billion in net assets spread across 525 companies. It is the largest of the three First Trust small-cap ETFs discussed. The top 10 holdings account for just 4.07%. With this kind of diversification, you’re not going to hit a home run owning FYX, but you’re less likely to lose your shirt should the current demand for small-cap stocks fade away. The top three sectors by weight are financials (20.38%), industrials (17.47%), and health care (14.20%). Tech represents just 8.34% of the portfolio. Based on risk-adjusted returns,Morningstargives it four stars over the past 10 years, with a 10-year annualized total return of 12.14%. Yesterday, it hit a new 52-week high of $128.47, the 53rd of the past 12 months. Its shares are up 53% over the past year. First Trust Small Cap Growth AlphaDEX Fund (FYC)tracks the Nasdaq AlphaDEX Small Cap Growth Index, a collection of small-cap stocks also selected from the Nasdaq US 700 Small Cap Growth Index, using the AlphaDEX stock selection methodology. First Trust launched the ETF in April 2011 and has $984 million in net assets, spread across 264 companies. It is the second-largest of the three First Trust small-cap ETFs discussed. The top 10 holdings account are 8.1%, double the weight of FYX. The top three sectors by weight are health care (26.46%), industrials (21.95%), and tech (11.28%). In FYC, financials are weighted at 10.91%, about half of FYX. Based on risk-adjusted returns,Morningstargives it four stars over the past 10 years and five stars over the last five years. Its 10- and 5-year annualized total returns are 13.74% and 9.05%, respectively. Yesterday, it hit a new 52-week high of $106.37, the 66th of the past 12 months. Its shares are up 62% over the past year. Notably, yesterday, it also hit an all-time high. First Trust Small Cap Value AlphaDEX Fund (FYT)tracks the Nasdaq AlphaDEX Small Cap Value Index, a collection of small-cap stocks also selected from the Nasdaq US 700 Small Cap Value Index, using the AlphaDEX stock selection methodology. First Trust launched FYT at the same time as FYC in April 2011 and has $162 million in net assets, spread across 262 companies. It is the smallest of the three First Trust small-cap ETFs discussed. That makes sense, given that value stocks have been out of fashion until the past six months to a year. The top 10 holdings account are 6.78%, a little more than halfway between FYX and FYC. The top three sectors by weight are financials (26.85%), consumer discretionary (15.34%), and industrials (13.29%). In FYT, the health care weight is just 5.92%, well below those of FYX and FYC. Morningstardoesn’t rate it. That’s likely due to the small asset base.  Its 10- and 5-year annualized total returns are 10.25% and 6.48%, respectively. Yesterday, it hit a new 52-week high of $65.08, the 45th of the past 12 months. Its shares are up 45% over the past year. FYT also hit an all-time high yesterday. Whenever investors consider buying ETFs, fees are an important consideration. FYX’s total expense ratio is 0.58%, while FYC and FYT are 12 basis points higher. That difference partly explains why FYX has attracted the most assets of the three. Interestingly, the three ETFs' 10-year annualized total returns line up perfectly, with FYX’s at 12.14%, 189 basis points higher than FYT, and 160 basis points below FYC. That’s what you want and expect to happen from core, growth, and value funds. So, if cost is your most important criterion for choosing an ETF, then you’ll want to go with FYX. However, if cost isn’t a dealbreaker, then you’ve got to decide between value and growth. This April 1 article from Royce Investment Partners does a good job on the subject. “For the third consecutive quarter, the Russell 2000 Value Index beat the Russell 2000 Growth Index, up 5.0% versus a loss of -2.8% in 1Q26,” writes Royce’s Co-Chief Investment Officer Francis Gannon. “Unlike small-cap value’s advantages in the last two quarters of 2025, results in the first quarter were more in line with each style index’s long-running historical patterns: small-cap growth typically outperforms in fast growing or earnings-starved market climates while small-cap value usually outperforms in down markets or when the economy is expanding.” I think it’s fair to say we aren’t in fast-growing or earnings-starved markets, but more likely leaning into a down market in the second half of 2026 -- although the S&P 500 is now in positive territory for the year -- so FYT looks to be slightly more attractive at this point in the economic cycle. Over the long haul, however, I don’t think you can go wrong owning any of FTX, FYC, and FYT. On the date of publication, Will Ashworth did not have (either directly or indirectly) positions in any of the securities mentioned in this article. All information and data in this article is solely for informational purposes. This article was originally published onBarchart.com Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Sign in to access your portfolio

---

HEADLINE: Vince (VNCE) Q4 2025 Earnings Call Transcript
SOURCE: Yahoo Finance
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/vince-vnce-q4-2025-earnings-151601733.html

Oops, something went wrong Image source: The Motley Fool. Wednesday, April 15, 2026 at 8:30 a.m. ET Chief Executive Officer — Brendan Hoffman Chief Financial Officer — Yuji Okumura Brendan Hoffman:Thank you, and good morning, everyone. I'm incredibly proud of the strong operating results we are announcing today, highlighting the exceptional momentum we delivered at the end of the year that has continued into the start of fiscal 2026. As we announced earlier this year, we saw incredible strength in our direct-to-consumer business over the holiday period, and that remained the case throughout the full quarter. For the fourth quarter, sales in our direct-to-consumer business increased about 10% compared to last year, supported by our ongoing efforts in improving the customer experience and by the strategic pricing actions taken earlier in the fall. For the overall quarter, sales were up nearly 5% compared to last year and profitability outpacing the high end of our prior guidance range. We are especially proud of this performance given the disruption we experienced with developments from Saks Global, which presented a headwind to sales of approximately $2 million in the quarter. With the recent reorganization of Saks Global, we now have more clarity into the situation and are working with our partners there as they move forward in their plans. As a reminder, Saks Global recently represented less than 7% of our total sales. We remain supportive and confident in the new leadership team's ability to stabilize the business. We believe any change in penetration from this one partner going forward will be offset by strength elsewhere in the channel, given our diversified base and strong relationships across our wholesale business. This is a credit to not only our strong partnerships, but to the great product that is resonating across both men's and women's. We were also really pleased as we continue to elevate the product offering appealing to our broad customer base. This strong performance supported by our fiscal 2025 results, which delivered sales growth of over 2% and adjusted EBITDA growth of about 8% despite contending with approximately $8 million of incremental tariff costs. As we have discussed, our teams have done a tremendous job in mitigating the tariff pressures we faced. We acted swiftly, diversifying our sourcing across Asia and globally while working closely with manufacturing partners to maintain the quality standards that define Vince. We also implemented strategic pricing increases while maintaining unit sales validating the strength and quality of our product. As we enter fiscal 2026, I am encouraged by the growth we are continuing to drive, and I'm more confident than ever in the trajectory ahead for Vince Holding Corp. Given this, we are exploring opportunities to continue to invest in the customer experience within our full-price direct-to-consumer business. We are looking at areas like special events, people and store operations, including remodels and new store openings, while also continuing to leverage our digital platform and expand drop ship to additional categories. In spring 2026, these categories will include handbags, tailored clothing, belts and accessories, creating revenue opportunity with minimal inventory risk for the business. In addition, we are continuing to scale our men's business. We ended the year with men's representing approximately 24% of total sales and continue to see opportunity to expand this to 30% penetration, driven by growth in wholesale partnerships and expanded assortments in our own stores and online. And with respect to our international business, our second London store in Marylebone exceeded expectations this year and validated our thoughts on further international expansion. This success gives us confidence to explore additional flagship opportunities in gateway cities like Paris in the next 2 years. Finally, the strategy, I believe, will really help to accelerate our growth is our focus on maximizing Vince Holding Corp as a platform. While we do not have anything yet to report, we are continuing to look for opportunities to leverage our platform our world-class team and capabilities to support additional brands. This will create a new revenue stream for Vince Holding Corp. We could not be more enthused by our partnership with ABG, which not only opens channels for us, but also provides great opportunities with respect to marketing and engaging customers. We are thrilled to partner with the ABG team with a recent event at the Masters last week, and we are looking forward to doing similar types of interactive activations with the team for future high-profile events. This is in addition to the elevated outreach that we are also doing in partnership with our wholesale partners. Following the successful brand events at the end of last year with Nordstrom and celebrating our holiday campaign at our Madison Avenue, New York City flagship, we have continued the storytelling around the Vince brand. We recently celebrated an exclusive capsule collection for Spring 2026 as part of Bloomingdale's California Love campaign and hosted an influencer and editor event to showcase the capsule and preview of our Spring 2026 collection with over 100 editors and influencers in attendance. As part of the event, we also co-hosted a private VIC dinner with Bloomingdale VICs complete with a fashion show and mod

[BRIEFING TRUNCATED — TOKEN_BUDGET REACHED]
