[MARKET REGIME: COMPUTING...]

MIROFISH BRIEFING — 2026-04-16 17:35 UTC
============================================================

HEADLINE: Citizens (CFG) Q1 2026 Earnings Call Transcript
SOURCE: Yahoo Finance
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/citizens-cfg-q1-2026-earnings-162336916.html

Oops, something went wrong Image source: The Motley Fool. Thursday, April 16, 2026 at 9 a.m. ET Chairman and Chief Executive Officer — Bruce Van Saun Chief Financial Officer — Aunoy Banerjee Head of Consumer Banking — Brendan Coughlin Head of Commercial Banking — Theodore Swimmer Need a quote from a Motley Fool analyst? Email pr@fool.com Bruce Van Saun:Okay. Thanks, Kristin, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining our call today. We're pleased to start the year off strong, notwithstanding geopolitical tensions and uncertainty in the macro environment. We delivered good financial performance in a seasonally soft quarter with year-over-year EPS growth of 47%, positive operating leverage of 7% and NIM expansion of 24 basis points. Our balance sheet position continues to be robust with CET1 at 10.5% and our allowance for loan losses at 1.52%. Credit trends continue to be favorable across our portfolios, and we continue our loan mix shift towards deeper relationships with lower credit risk. Execution on our strategic initiatives continues to track well. The Private Bank and Wealth business showed further growth in customers, balance sheet and profitability, now accounting for roughly 10% of our pretax income while delivering an ROE in excess of 25%. During the quarter, we opened 3 more PBOs, bringing the total to 9. Reimagine the bank is off to a solid start, and we reaffirm our $450 million P&L target by the end of 2028. We estimate about $100 million in 2026 exit run rate benefits at this point. Our positioning with private capital continues to be excellent. We anticipate a strong year for private equity sponsor activity, which should provide a balance sheet and fee opportunities for us. We've reviewed all of our lending to private credit vehicles at a granular level and we feel good about our credit exposure. The New York City Metro initiative also continues to show further progress. We are growing across retail, small business and middle market. We are in the process of analyzing Citizens' existing branch footprint for net new investment and optimization with New York City likely to see growth in branches in coming years. We should have more details to share with you on this midyear. We're also focused on an initiative we call One Citizens, which is systematically finding ways to work across the enterprise to deliver valuable solutions to our customers. Now that we have stood up the private bank and continued the build-out of our corporate bank, we have the capacity to provide both personal and corporate services to successful business owners investors and entrepreneurs. We will report more on this as the year progresses, but we're already gaining real traction. As we look ahead to the second quarter and the full year, we remain cautiously optimistic that we'll be able to navigate through external challenges and still deliver the strong results we projected coming into this year. So far, markets have behaved rationally despite the war with equity markets holding in and credit spreads only slightly wider. We intend to stay on our investment plan for the year unless the macro takes a meaningful turn for the worst. We're pleased with the regulatory changes we see coming from Washington, D.C., and we look forward to the upcoming CCAR stress test results, which we're hopeful will give a more accurate result for citizens than what we've seen in the past. So to sum up, a good start, well positioned with a great strategy and a great team and optimistic for a strong 2026. With that, I'll turn it over to Aunoy for the financial details. Aunoy? Aunoy Banerjee:Thanks, Bruce. Good morning, everyone. As Bruce mentioned, Citizens has started the year well. Referencing Slides 3 and 4, we delivered EPS of $1.13 for the first quarter with ROTCE of 12.2%. Results were paced by strong NII, reflecting both continued net interest margin expansion and solid loan growth. We also deferred our best-ever first quarter fee result, led by strong performance in our commercial bank. With solid revenue performance and expense discipline drove more than 700 basis points of positive operating leverage year-over-year notwithstanding continued investment in the private bank and our other strategic priorities, along with ramping up our [indiscernible] bank program. The Private Bank continued to grow its profitability, contributing $0.11 to EPS, up from $0.10 in the prior quarter as the business delivered another very strong quarter of deposit growth. Now let me walk through the first quarter results in more detail, starting with net interest income on Slide 5. Net interest income was up 1.6% linked quarter, driven by the benefit of an expanded net interest margin and higher interest-earning assets, including strong loan growth which more than offset the day count impact of about $22 million. As you see from the NIM back at the bottom of the slide, our margin improved 7 basis points to 3.14%, driven primarily by the benefits of the reduced drag from terminated swaps and noncore runoff with a 5 basis point of combined impact. The fixed rate asset repricing benefit of 1 basis point. And lastly, the net impact of 1 basis point related to improved funding cost and mix, largely offset by lower acetyls. We continue to do a good job optimizing deposits in a competitive environment. Our interest-bearing deposit costs were down 16 basis points and total deposit costs were down 12 basis points. The cumulative interest-bearing deposit beta improved to 50% as we benefited from the repricing after the last rate cut. Even with the Fed now expected to hold steady in '26, we are still projecting a high 40s beta for the cycle. Moving to Slide 6. Noninterest income is up 11% year-over-year but down 2% linked quarter. As I mentioned, this was our strongest first quarter fee result ever, notwithstanding heightened geopolitical tensions and an increase in market volatility. Capital markets performance demonstrated the strength and diversity of the franchise with fees up 34% year-over-year and down 4% compared with the strong fourth quarter. M&A delivered a good result in the quarter with our pipeline is strong and continues to build. Bond underwriting was up nicely from the prior quarter. Our equity underwriting performance was stable linked quarter and up significantly year-over-year. Loan syndications were lower given the market volatility. We continue to maintain strong market share ranking fourth in the middle market sponsors book runner deals by volume. This is for both the first quarter and over the last 12 months. Our deal pipelines across M&A, debt and equity capital markets continue to build notwithstanding the unsettled environment. Our Global Markets business was up $10 million linked quarter with increased client hedging activity in interest rate products and energy-related commodities. Our wealth business continues to build with progress in the private bank and strength in our retail network. Wealth fees are up 2% linked quarter and 23% year-over-year. These results reflect higher advisory fees with continued positive momentum in fee-based AUM growth year-over-year. The fourth quarter results reflect positive net inflows partially offset by market impacts on AUM. Mortgage was down 19% linked quarter given a lower MSR valuation, partially offset by slightly higher production and servicing fees. On Slide 7, Expenses were managed tightly, up 2.6% linked quarter, largely reflecting the usual seasonality in salaries and benefits as well as about $6 million of implementation costs to ramp up the reimagined the bank program. On Slide 8, average and period-end loans were up 1% linked quarter. We saw solid loan growth across each of the businesses. Commercial loans, excluding the private bank, were up 1% on a spot basis. This was driven by net new money originations at higher commercial line utilization. This was partially offset by CRE paydowns. We continue to reduce commercial banking CRE balances, which were down about 4% this quarter and 16% year-over-year. The Private Bank delivered good loan growth again this quarter with period-end lows up about $600 million, driven by growth in multifamily and residential mortgage. Growth in retail loans ex noncore on a spot basis was about $300 million, led by real estate secured categories. This was offset by noncore auto portfolio run-up of roughly $500 million for the quarter. Next, on Slides 9 and 10, we continue to do a good job on deposits. with average deposits up 1% or $1.5 billion quarter-on-quarter, primarily driven by the growth in the Private Bank, which reached $16.6 billion at the end of the quarter. This was partially offset by seasonal impacts in commercial. Year-over-year, average balances are up $8.6 billion or 5%, reflecting combined growth in the private bank and commercial of $11.2 billion, partially offset by roughly $2 billion of reduction in higher-cost treasury brokered deposits. On a spot basis, noninterest-bearing balances are up $1.3 billion or 3% quarter-on-quarter and up $4.1 billion or 11% year-over-year, improving the overall mix to 23% of the book. Our total noninterest-bearing and low-cost deposit mix was steady at 43%, and our consumer deposits are 64% of our total deposits. This compares to a peer average of about 56%. Moving to Slide 11. Credit continues to trend favorably with net charge-offs coming in at 39 basis points, down from 43 basis points in the prior quarter. Nonaccrual loans are down modestly linked quarter, reflecting a decrease in commercial, largely driven by C&I, which was partially offset by an increase in market. Turning to Slide 12. The allowance was essentially stable this quarter with ACL coverage ratios of 1.52%. This reflects the continued improvement in our portfolio mix with noncore runoff, the reduction in CRE and strong originations of lower loss content C&I, residential real estate secured and private loans. The economic forecast supporting the allowance contemplates a mild recession with a slight deterioration compared with the last quarter, reflecting the potential impact of higher energy prices. As we look broadly across the portfolio, the credit outlook remains positive though we continue to carefully monitor the macroeconomic environment. Moving to Slide 13. We maintained excellent balance sheet strength, ending the quarter with CET1 at 10.5%. We returned about $500 million to shareholders in the first quarter with $198 million in common dividends and $300 million of share repurchases. Moving to Slide 14. The private bank continues to make excellent progress. The Private Bank delivered strong deposit growth again, ending the quarter at $16.6 billion. Importantly, the overall deposit mix and cost continues to be very attractive. We also delivered solid loan growth in the quarter, adding about $600 million of loan at a healthy spread of 4% over deposit costs to end the quarter at $7.7 billion of loans. We ended the quarter with $10.1 billion of total client assets with modest net inflows partially offset by market impacts. We have more runway here as we plan to continue adding top quality teams in key geographies. We opened offices in Malmo Park and Laurel Village in the first quarter, and we expect to open at least 2 more offices this year in Weston Beach, Florida and Greenwich, Connecticut. Moving to Slide 15. Our reimagined the bank program is off to a great start. The objective is to position Citizens for long-term success by embracing a host of new innovative technologies across the bank and simplifying our business model. which will reshape our customer experience and drive a meaningful improvement in productivity and efficiency. The program is well underway with work commencing on several key work streams. For example, on the technology front, we are leveraging AI to assist in writing code and expect to have material productivity improvements in software development, cutting down cycle times. We are also using AI to improve our interactions with customers, which we expect will materially cut call volumes and improve the overall customer experience. We expect to exist 2026 with an annualized run rate of about $100 million of pretax benefit. Now moving to Slide 16. We provide our outlook for the second quarter. We expect net interest income to be up in the range of 3% to 4%, driven by continued expansion in net interest margin and earning asset growth. Noninterest income is expected to be up 3% to 5%, led by capital markets with some risk if market volatility moves higher. Other fee categories such as FX and derivatives, wealth and card should also provide lift for the quarter. We are projecting expenses to be stable to up 1% and incorporating a step-up in implementation costs associated with reimagine the Bank and continued investment in other key business initiatives. We expect expense saves from reimagine the bank to benefit second half expenses. The charge-off level is expected to be stable to down slightly. And we should end the second quarter with CET1 in the range of 10.5% to 10.6%, including share repurchases of about $225 million. In addition, our full year outlook remains broadly in line with the guide we provided in January, which contemplated a pickup in business activity over the course of the year. Looking out further, we see a clear path to achieving our 16% to 18% ROTCE target by the end of pending our net interest margin is an important driver, and we continue to project NIM to be in the range of [ 322% to 328% ] in 4Q '26. And in the range of [ 330% to 350% ] in 4Q '27. Slide 17 provides incremental details on our net interest margin progression to the end of '27. This combined with the impact of successful execution of our strategic initiatives and normalizing credit should drive ROI to our target range. To wrap up, we're off to a good start to with results highlighted by strong growth, net interest income and good fee results in a seasonally soft quarter. Our balance sheet is strong and continue to drive forward our strategic initiatives with strong momentum in growing the private bank and in our reimagine the bank program. With that, I will hand it back over to Bruce. Bruce Van Saun:Okay. Thank you, Aunoy. Operator, let's open it up for Q&A. Operator:[Operator Instructions]Our first question comes from Scott Siefers from Piper Sandler. Robert Siefers:Maybe I was hoping you could maybe start by speaking to kind of the capital markets dynamics. Obviously, I see the numbers in the first quarter, but curious how you thought the first quarter actually performed given that you had sort of the interplay between one, the environment played out a lot differently than we all figured it might. But two, I know you all had some deals that were pushed from the fourth quarter into the first quarter. So maybe just sort of results versus expectations then if you could speak to the forward look, things like pipelines, confidence and pull-through, et cetera. Bruce Van Saun:Yes. Scott, let me -- it's Bruce. I'll take it first and then hand over to Ted to provide more color. But I would say all things considered. We're pleased with the performance of the capital markets franchise in an environment that had increased volatility and lots of uncertainty, particularly in March once the war kicked in. But we have good diversification across our different services in capital markets. So we have M&A, we have bond underwriting, equity underwriting and syndicated loans. I think that diversity helped us print a good quarter. There was some leakage, I would say, from March that's geared up to go in April, which now that we have more optimistic tone to the market. We're actually starting to see that come through. So we may be in a situation where our pipelines are very well. We're very optimistic given kind of the strength of the franchise the likelihood that people want to transact. But if there's this external volatility ebbs and flows, you could see people pull to the sidelines, wait for the opportune 

[BRIEFING TRUNCATED — TOKEN_BUDGET REACHED]
