[MARKET REGIME: COMPUTING...]

MIROFISH BRIEFING — 2026-04-16 18:35 UTC
============================================================

HEADLINE: Stock market today: S&P 500, Nasdaq edge higher as Trump says Israel, Lebanon agreed to a ceasefire
SOURCE: Yahoo Finance
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/live/stock-market-today-sp-500-nasdaq-edge-higher-as-trump-says-israel-lebanon-agreed-to-a-ceasefire-230116829.html

Oops, something went wrong US stocks inched higher on Thursday after President Trump said Israel and Lebanon agreed to a temporary ceasefire, which has been a key sticking point in US-Iran negotiations. The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) climbed 0.2%, as tech stocks recouped losses, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) wavered near the flat line. The S&P 500 (^GSPC) rose about 0.1%, extending astrong rally on Wednesday that pushed the broad benchmark above 7,000 for the first time. Stocks turned higher after Trump posted on Truth Social that Israel and Lebanon reached a 10-day ceasefire agreement, lifting hopes for a break in the Middle East conflict. The US and Iran are reportedly in indirectdiscussions to prolong their two-week ceasefireset to expire on April 22, with both sides said to be in favor of an extension. The US is still “very much engaged in these negotiations,” Karoline Levitt, the White House press secretary, said on Wednesday. Afresh batch of corporate earningsis on Thursday’s docket, with Netflix (NFLX) highlighting the reports after the closing bell. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSM) and PepsiCo (PEP) beat expectations on both earnings per share and revenue, while Charles Schwab (SCHW) earnings topped estimates but missed on revenue. On the economic data front, initial jobless claimsfell to 207,000 in the week ended April 11, according to Department of Labor data released Thursday. Meanwhile, industrial production slowed 0.5% in March, missing estimates of 0.1% growth. Yahoo Finance’s Brooke DiPalmareports: Allbirds (BIRD) stock veered nearly 30% lower on Thursday afternoon, sharply reversing a nearly 600% gain on Wednesday after the company announced it's switching from a sustainable sneaker business to an artificial intelligence company. The stock fell to $12 per share after jumping as high as $23 on Thursday. Still, it's a far cry from its price of less than $3 just days ago. The company's market cap spiked to $159 million on Wednesday, compared to $21.7 million at Tuesday's close. The company plans to change its name to NewBird AI and raise $50 million, with the funds expected to close during the second quarter of 2026. Readmore here. Israel and Lebanon have reached a 10-day ceasefire agreement, President Trump said in aTruth Social poston Thursday, marking a temporary break in a conflict that has snarled any potential positive movement between the US and Iran. “I just had excellent conversations with the Highly Respected President Joseph Aoun, of Lebanon, and Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu, of Israel. These two leaders have agreed that in order to achieve PEACE between their countries, they will formally begin a 10 Day CEASEFIRE at 5 P.M. EST,” the president wrote. Israel’s military campaign in Lebanon against the Iran-backed proxy force Hezbollah, which Netanyahu launched shortly after the Iran war began, has emerged as a key sticking point in US-Iran ceasefire negotiations. Even as Iran has insisted that a cessation of Israeli military action in Lebanon must be part of any ceasefire, Israel has continued a widespread air and ground campaign within the country against Hezbollah through the US-Iran ceasefire, set to expire on Tuesday. Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, Iran's parliamentary speaker, said in apost on Xon Wednesday that the US "must commit" to the "completion and consolidation of a comprehensive ceasefire in Lebanon.” The US has insisted that it does not view Lebanon as part of any ceasefire arrangements with Iran. Futures on oil continued their move up on Thursday. International benchmark Brent crude (BZ=F) rose 3.4% on the session, while US benchmark West Texas Intermediate (WT) crude (CL=F) futures gained a slimmer 2.3%. The executive director of the International Energy Agency said Thursday that Europe has “maybe six weeks of jet fuel left,” and flight cancellations are likely imminent. In an interview with the Associated Press published Thursday, IEA leader Fatih Birol warned that the war in Iran — and the following cessation of commodity flows out of the Strait of Hormuz — has created “the largest energy crisis in history.” In his comments to the AP, Birol cited higher gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel costs that are likely to continue rising, as a ceasefire agreement between the US and Iran and a reopening of the strait remain out of reach. “It is going to have major implications for the global economy,” Birol told the AP. “And the longer it goes, the worse it will be for the economic growth and inflation around the world.” Spirit Airline parent Spirit Aviation Holdings (FLYYQ) is at risk of being liquidated as early as this week, Bloomberg reports, citing rising jet fuel costs as putting further pressure on the company. Bloomberg sources claim the company could liquidate as soon as this week, though the situation is fluid, as Spirit is in talks with its creditors and could continue operations with fresh capital. It’s been a rough go of it for the budget carrier. Spirit filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in August 2025 — the second time it had to do so in under a year. A Spirit spokesperson declined to comment to Bloomberg. Read more here. The S&P 500 (^GSPC) just broke out to new highs. The next question is whether it holds. This morning, I noted that the index hadflashed a rare bullish thrust signal, rising 10% in only 11 trading days. Now the question is whether this breakout sticks, or starts to look more like the dot-com peak — a brief push to new highs before a sharp reversal. The best tell may be what’s happening under the hood. One simple way to track that is theadvance-decline line, a running measure of how many S&P 500 stocks are rising versus falling. After last year’s “Liberation Day” sell-off, breadth confirmed the recovery early. The advance-decline line peaked first in late 2024, then exceeded that high on May 2, 2025. Only after that did the S&P 500 reclaim and exceed its own prior peak on June 27, 2025. Today, the sequence is a little different. The S&P 500 peaked on Jan. 27, 2026. Breadth peaked a month later on Feb. 27, and price has already pushed to a new closing high as of April 15. That keeps the setup bullish. But until breadth comes into the picture, this breakout is not fully confirmed. US gross domestic product (GDP) could grow by more than 10% by 2034 on the back of large-scale economic growth driven by the boom in AI, BNP Paribas economists wrote in a client note on Wednesday. “The AI boom will be a period of optimism, in our view, in which the decisions of consumers, businesses and investors are informed by expectations of strong and sustained productivity growth,” the economists wrote. While BNP Paribas expects the US, Europe, and the UK to all benefit economically from the advent of the technology, the US is best positioned to see the largest benefits, the economists wrote. US GDP alone is likely to grow by 6.7% by 2034 under the bank’s central scenario, while the economists see GDP growth across the US, UK, and Europe averaging 4% above the baseline. “These results broadly match the historical experience of the [information and communications technology] revolution, when the US pulled ahead of Europe,” the economists wrote. The S&P 500closed above 7,000 for the first time on Wednesday, marking the index's first record close since January and a return to new highs after two months of disruptions tagged to private credit, an AI software apocalypse, and then the outbreak of the US-Iran war. At its trough, the S&P 500 was down 9% from its late January highs. With Wednesday's close, the index returned to a record just 11 days after reaching this nadir. And according to data fromBespoke Investment Group, this marks the fastest move from a correction of this size to a new record high since 1928. Here's Bespoke: The Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) and Nasdaq 100 (^NDX) both notched their second intraday record highs of 2026 at the open. The S&P 500 (^GSPC) did the same, bringing its 2026 total to eight, while the Dow Transports (^DJT) just logged its 16th all-time high of the year. Both Nasdaq indexes, along with large-cap tech (XLK), are on track to extend their winning streaks to a historic 12 days. Semiconductors (SOXX), meanwhile, are in the red and set to snap an 11-day streak. Interestingly, not a single large-cap sector has made a record high in this comeback, either intraday or on a closing basis. Even so, small-cap tech (PSCT) has become the first sector in its cohort to hit an intraday record high, and the Russell 2000 (^RUT) is within a hair of its first record closing high since January. US edged up at the opening bell on Thursday after Wednesday saw the S&P 500 cross over 7,000 for the first time. The Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) led gains with an advance of roughly 0.4%, while the S&P 500 (^GSPC) gained roughly 0.2%. Meanwhile, the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) hovered just above the flatline. Investors are watching for signs of progress between the US and Iran on the war in the Middle East, with the two sides now reportedly in indirectdiscussions to prolong the two-week ceasefireset to expire on April 22. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSM) and PepsiCo (PEP) beat on both the top and bottom lines, while Charles Schwab (SCHW) reported above expectations on earnings but fell below revenue estimates. Standout Netflix (NFLX) is set to report after the closing bell. Initial jobless claimsfell to 207,000 in the week ended April 11, according to Department of Labor data released Wednesday. Initial jobless claimsfell to 207,000 in the week ended April 11, according to data released by the Department of Labor on Thursday, coming in below the previous week's revised tally of 218,000 claims. Economists had expected initial claims of 213,000 for the week, according to consensus estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The falling unemployment claims came after the Federal Reserve released itsBeige Book, which is published eight times per year. Most districts, the Fed wrote, “described labor demand as stable, with low turnover, minimal layoffs, and hiring mostly for replacement.” Continuing claims, which track the unemployed population still seeking work, rose to 1.82 million for the week ended April 4, above economists' expectations of 1.81 million and the previous week's 1.79 million. What Allbirds is doing is not all that different from Big Tech's embarrassing, conformist, trend-jacking turn to AI not that long ago. Yahoo Finance’sHamza Shabanwrites: Read more herein today’s takeaway from the Morning Brief. The S&P 500 (^GSPC) just pulled off a rare sprint, notes Yahoo Finance’sJared Blikre. He writes: Read more here. From Bloomberg: The US and Iran are considering a two-week ceasefire extension to allow more time to negotiate a peace deal, according to a person familiar with the matter, reducing the risk of renewed fighting despite an intensifying standoff over the Strait of Hormuz. With the initial truce due to expire next week, mediators are seeking technical talks to overcome the most contentious issues preventing a longer-term agreement, said the person, who asked not to be identified discussing sensitive matters. Those include reopening Hormuz and the future of Iran’s nuclear program. Tensions remain high over the strait, a critical waterway for oil and gas that’s been effectively shuttered since the start of the war almost seven weeks ago. The US has set up a naval blockade to cut off Iranian shipments, and said Wednesday that 10 vessels have been forced to turn around. Tehran is keeping the strait closed to most other traffic. … The US hasn’t “formally requested an extension of the ceasefire,” White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt told reporters Wednesday. But she acknowledged “we remain very much engaged in these negotiations.” The US is sending thousands of additional troops to the Middle East in the coming days to pressure Tehran into making a deal or to prepare for strikes if the ceasefire ends, the Washington Post reported, citing current and former officials it didn’t name. Read more here. Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average (^N225) ended Thursday’s session at a new record high, erasing its losses from the Iran war amid optimism that new peace talks could speed an end to the conflict. Bloomberg reports: Read more here. Bloomberg reports: Read more here. Bloomberg reports: Read more here. Reuters reports: Read more here. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Sign in to access your portfolio

---

HEADLINE: Investors Are Walking on Eggshells These Days. Yet the S&P 500 Index Is on the Cusp of Doing Something Extraordinary for Only the 4th Time in 20 Years.
SOURCE: Yahoo Finance
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/investors-walking-eggshells-days-yet-172500234.html

Oops, something went wrong While the market has held up fairly well given all the turbulence this year, it's hard not to go a day without hearing about concerns. These are certainly understandable, given everything that's happened since the COVID-19 pandemic. High interest rates and the longest inverted yield curve in history suggested that a recession was almost a certainty, yet there hasn't been one. Meanwhile, there have also been significant concerns about stagflation, another worrisome scenario that would be bad for the market. Will AI create the world's first trillionaire?Our team just released a report on a little-known company, called an "Indispensable Monopoly," providing the critical technology Nvidia and Intel both need.Continue » Yet while it feels like investors have been walking on eggshells for years, theS&P 500(SNPINDEX: ^GSPC)is on the cusp of doing something extraordinary for only the fourth time in the past two decades. Let's dive in. One concern that bears have frequently pointed out is the S&P 500's elevated valuation since the pandemic. While it varies depending on the data source you use, theS&P 500currently trades at 28.5 times trailing earnings, well above its five-year average, which has been elevated by historical standards. The bulls could argue that the market deserves a premium because it has posted strong earnings growth over the past few years. Much of this has been led bylarge-cap growthand tech companies, which have seen 24% earnings growth in every quarter since the third quarter of 2023, according to a team of strategists atDeutsche Bank. But with earnings season having just kicked off, Wall Street analysts on average expect the S&P 500 to generate more than 16% year-over-year growth in the first quarter of 2026, the highest level in four years. Deutsche Bank's head strategist Binky Chadha thinks that number will actually be over 19%. "Equity investor positioning, meanwhile, is significantly underweight and in line with an imminent collapse in earnings growth," Chadha and his team said in a recent research note. "Positioning is notably low for sectors in the market crosshairs currently, like financials and tech, especially software." Even the 16% consensus growth is an extremely high level "rarely expected at the start of any earnings season" but which supports a healthy macro backdrop, weakness in the U.S. dollar, and cyclical growth tailwinds. Furthermore, according to Chadha and his team's analysis, consensus earnings growth has only been this strong three other times over the past 20 years. Most have actually come after significant sell-offs and financial crises, such as the Great Recession in 2008-2009, and following the brunt of the COVID-19 pandemic. It also happened after significant corporate tax cuts were implemented in 2018. Earnings growth helps explain some of the market's resilience in recent years. Despite everything that's happened, including the pandemic, an inverted yield curve, rapidly rising interest rates, the 2023 banking crisis, President Donald Trump's tariffs, and even the Iran war, the market is

[BRIEFING TRUNCATED — TOKEN_BUDGET REACHED]
