[MARKET REGIME: COMPUTING...]

MIROFISH BRIEFING — 2026-04-16 16:05 UTC
============================================================

HEADLINE: Is Nike’s dividend safe? Yield & payout ratio explained
SOURCE: Yahoo Finance
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/markets/stocks/articles/nike-dividend-safe-yield-payout-145100012.html

Oops, something went wrong Retail giant Nike has long been a staple in footwear and sports apparel, and since 2013, it has held one of the 30 coveted spots on theDow Jones Industrial Average, America’s oldest and most prestigious stock index. And, as an added perk for investors, the company behind the iconic “swoosh” logo also pays a quarterly cash dividend to shareholders. In recent years, however, Nike’s stock has been on rocky footing, leaving some income investors wondering how safe its dividend is. Here’s everything you need to know about Nike’s dividend, including its history,yield, payout ratio, and — perhaps most importantly — whether it’s a safe income stream for investors to rely on looking forward. Dividend payout frequency Quarterly Per-share payout (quarterly) $0.41 Per-share payout (annual) $1.64 Dividend yield 3.82% Dividend payout ratio 106% As of 2026, Nike pays a dividendof $0.41per share quarterly, for a total of$1.64individendsper share on an annual basis.According to Nike, dividends are paid “on or about January 5, April 5, July 5 and October 5.” The last time Nike’s dividend was actually disbursed on the 5th of the month was July 5, 2023. Since then, the dividend has arrived one or more days “early.” In 2025, Nike’s quarterly dividend was $0.40 per share, so an investor with 1,000 shares of Nike stock would have received $1,600 in dividends from the shoemaker that year. Nike announcedon Nov. 20, 2025, that it would raise its quarterly dividend by 1 cent, from $0.40 per share to $0.41 per share. The first $0.41 dividend was paid on Jan. 2, 2026, to shareholders of record as of Dec. 1, 2025. Nike has a long history of increasing its dividend on an annual basis, something many mature companies do to reward long-term shareholders and signal strength to the market. This move came despite Nike’s stock struggling for the past few years after reaching an all-time high of around $166 per share in early November 2021. As of this article’s last update, Nike’s stock was trading around $44 per share. Related: The Dow’s best dividend stocks: A shortlist for income investors Nike paid its first dividend of $0.05 per share in 1984. Since then, it has split its stock six times, conducted many share buybacks, and continued paying dividends all the while, demonstrating an excellent history of rewarding long-term shareholders despite ups and downs in the market. “Dividend aristocrat” is a prestigious term reserved for companies that have increased dividend payments on an annual basis for 25 years or more without interruption. And while Nike does have a long history of increasing its dividend, it still has a little further to go to achieve aristocrat status. Per the company, 2026’s one-cent increase “marks the 24th consecutive year that NIKE has increased its quarterly dividend.” Should the company increase its dividend in 2027, it will officially become a dividend aristocrat. More on Dow stocks' dividends: Apple’s dividend explained: Yield, history & more Does Chevron pay dividends? When & how often? Does Salesforce pay a dividend? Its yield and payouts explained Dividend investors are often warned to be wary of high payout ratios, which express a company’s dividends per share as a percentage of itsearnings per share. In other words, it’s a metric that tells investors how much of a company’s profits are being passed along to shareholders as dividends. Ideally, a mature company might have a dividend ratio of 30% to 60%, indicating that it shares some of its profits with investors while still retaining enough cash to continue investing in its growth and other business objectives. When a company’s payout ratio starts to climb too high, investors worry that a company may no longer be on stable financial footing. Either profits are falling, the company isn’t keeping enough cash on hand to maintain the business's health, or both. As of this article’s last update, Nike’sdividend payout ratiowas over 100%, which most income investors would see as cause for alarm. In the very short term, this number means that Nike is paying more in dividends than it is actually earning in profit — a move that is not sustainable in the long run. This startling metric, when viewed alongside Nike’s recent history of falling revenue and shrinking margins, could be seen as a red flag for the stock, at least in the short term. In fact,Seeking Alpha’s Ben Lakosadvised investors to steer clear of the stock, warning that its “Current dividend and valuation do not compensate for macro headwinds and the lack of broad-based demand recovery.” That said, Nike still has a reputation as a relatively reliable, mature blue-chip stock with unparalleled mainstream cultural relevance, and its management is clearly dedicated to maintaining and growing its dividend. For long-term income investors who believe in the company’s future, its relatively low share price could present an opportunity to pick up shares on the cheap and lock in a healthydividend yieldbefore the stock gets more rebounds to more expensive territory — something that is by no means guaranteed. In other words, while Nike’s dividend may not appear safe, and the company’s financial health has been declining in recent years, the fact that it has spent the past two-plus decades chasing dividend aristocrat status means that cutting or canceling its dividend would be a last resort. Related: History of Nike: Company timeline and facts Phil Knight, Nike’s cofounder, owned 27,479,487 shares of Nike Class A stock and 35,815,174 shares of Nike Class B stock — for a total of as ofhis last SEC disclosurein July 2025. Both share classes pay the same dividend. This means that in 2025, when Nike’s dividend was $0.40 per share, Knight would have received over $101 million in Nike dividends alone. This story was originally published byTheStreeton Apr 16, 2026, where it first appeared in theInvestingsection. Add TheStreet as aPreferred Source by clicking here. Weʼre unable to load stories right now. Sign in to access your portfolio

---

HEADLINE: Tech stocks today: Tesla, Apple lead 'Magnificent 7' stocks lower, TSMC sends bullish signal on AI demand
SOURCE: Yahoo Finance
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/sectors/technology/article/tech-stocks-today-tesla-apple-lead-magnificent-7-stocks-lower-tsmc-sends-bullish-signal-on-ai-demand-144220629.html

Oops, something went wrong Tech stocks pulled back on Thursday after stocks hit record highs the day before. The hostilities in the Middle East have weighed on tech stocks for weeks, clouding the picture of whether investors are pulling back because of the war or because of sentiment toward Big Tech more generally. On Thursday, Tesla (TSLA) stock fell, reversing some of its 8% gain from Wednesday’s session after shares were buoyed by CEO Elon Musk teasing the company’s AI5 chip. Speaking of AI chips, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSM) released its latest quarterly earnings on Thursday. A sizable 58% increase in first quarter profits and comments by the company’s CEO sent a strong signalthat AI demand remains robust. Other news in the artificial intelligence industry took a dark turn over the past weekend, as OpenAI (OPAI.PVT) CEO Sam Altman’s home was targeted in two apparent attacks, an attempted shooting and a Molotov cocktail attack that caused a fire. No one was injured in either attack. Altman addressed the Molotov cocktail attack in a blog post on Friday evening, saying, “we should de-escalate the rhetoric” around AI amid rising uncertainty about the technology’s power. Read more about today's market action. Yahoo Finance's Brian Sozzi reports: Read more here. Vertical Aerospace (EVTL) stock jumped on Thursday after the company revealed a new milestone for its Valo air taxi. The company said it became only the second company globally to complete a “two-way piloted transition” flight in its eVTOL (electric vertical take off and landing) aircraft, and the first to do so under civil aviation Design Organization Approval regulatory oversight. Vertical said the two-way piloted transition means the Valo aircraft transitioned from “vertical take-off to wingborne cruise and back to vertical landing — all in one continuous flight.” In other words, its movable propellers move from helicopter to flight mode and back again while in flight. Read more from Vertical’s news release here. Yahoo’s Francisco Velasquez reports. Tech stocks were leading markets higher on Wednesday, and among the Magnificent Seven stocks, one stock was a notable outperformer — Tesla (TSLA). Shares of the EV maker rose as much as 8% on Wednesday, rallying relentlessly from the market open. The move comes a day after the stock caught an upgrade at UBS, with the firmraising its rating on shares to Hold from Selland putting a $360 price target on the stock. Overnight,Tesla CEO Elon Musk also posted an imageon his social media platform X of Tesla AI’s new AI5 chip, teasing that it is just one of several new high-powered chips being developed by the company. In early afternoon trade on Wednesday, Tesla stock was trading closer to $400. The stock is still down about 12% this year. Tesla is expected to report earnings after the market close on April 22. Uber’s CTO Praveen Neppalli Naga told The Information that the company has already spent its AI budget for the year, and it’s only April. “I'm back to the drawing board because the budget I thought I would need is blown away already,”Neppalli Naga said in an interview. He said the bulk of the spend has gone to AI coding tools, including Anthropic’s Claude Code and Anysphere’s Cursor. The rideshare company uses the AI software models to write code that helps pair riders and drivers, determine pricing, and improve navigation. Neppalli Naga didn’t reveal Uber’s software budget, but The Information noted that the company’s R&D costs, which typically include AI spend, “rose 9% to $3.4 billion in 2025 from the previous year, and the firm said in a recent securities filing it expects that cost will continue rising on an absolute dollar basis.” Yahoo Finance's Brian Sozzi reports: Read more here. Yahoo Finance’s Brian Sozzi reports:  Yahoo Finance's As AI compute needs multiply, one quantum computing firm says it has the edge over Nvidia (NVDA). "If I was Nvidia, I'd be shaking in my boots," D-Wave Quantum (QBTS) CEO Alan Baratz told Yahoo Finance at the Semafor World Economy Summit. Baratz's company, which develops the hardware and software for quantum systems, claims the AI chip giant is building processors that would be increasingly difficult to power. "Our quantum computer takes about ten kilowatts of power to run," Baratz noted, comparing the draw to roughly five or ten GPUs. He pointed to a problem solved in minutes that he claimed would take a massive GPU system nearly a million years and "the world's power" to complete. The timing is calculated. April 14 is World Quantum Day, and the sector is surging. Shares of D-Wave jumped nearly 16% on Tuesday, while IonQ (IONQ) soared 18% after scaling its commercial systems beyond a single processor. reports: Read more here. JPMorgan Chase (JPM) CEO Jamie Dimon called out cybersecurity as the “largest risk” the bank faces in the company’s earnings call this morning. Dimon said the bank is testing Anthropic’s new Mythos AI model, which has raised alarms on Wall Street and across the tech sector. Anthropic delayed the release of Mythos, deeming it too dangerous for the public after the model detected thousands of high-severity vulnerabilities in existing software. While Dimon assured shareholders that JPMorgan is well protected against cyber threats, he noted that AI has made these risks “worse” and harder to defend against. “It does create additional vulnerabilities and, maybe down the road, better ways to strengthen itself too,” Dimon said of the Mythos model. “While we're trying to get the benefits AI, we also are very cognizant of the risk of cyber. I think the government is aware of it too.” Yahoo Finance's Jake Conley reports: Read more here. The competition between OpenAI (OPAI.PVT) and Anthropic (ANTH.PVT) doesn’t appear to be cooling off. In amemo to staff published by The Verge, OpenAI’s chief revenue officer Denise Dresser outlined a number of priorities for the company’s sales org this quarter, saying enterprise AI is “entering a more mature phase,” and that its biggest customers “want a system they can trust and build on.” The most notable headline to emerge from Dresser’s memo, however, came from the concluding thoughts on the competitive landscape, namely, OpenAI’s biggest competitor, Anthropic. “Their stated run rate is inflated,” Dresser wrote. “They use accounting treatment that makes revenue look bigger than it is, including grossing up rev share with Amazon and Google. Our analysis shows that this overstates their run rate by roughly $8 billion (at the current $30 [billion] stated). We report Microsoft revshare net, which is more inline with standards we would be held to as a public company.” Last week,Anthropic disclosed the $30 billion run rate figure, which signaled its growth rate had roughly tripled since the end of 2025. Dresser’s memo also criticized Anthropic for telling a story “built on fear, restriction, and the idea that a small group of elites should control AI.” The memo also said Anthropic made a “strategic misstep” in not acquiring enough compute to meet user needs and that its focus on coding, “gave them an early wedge. But you do not want to be a single-product company in a platform war. As AI spreads beyond developers into every team, workflow, and industry, that narrowness can become a real liability.” Dresser also said OpenAI’s relationship has been “foundational” to its success, but that it “limited our ability to meet enterprises where they are.” In February, OpenAIannounced an expanded dealwith AWS, which included a $50 billion investment from Amazon and an exclusive cloud deal with AWS to distribute OpenAI Frontier, its enterprise platform. Globalstar (GSAT) shares jumped over 8% on Tuesday after Amazon (AMZN) signed an $11.57 billion deal to purchase the satellite provider. The deal positions Amazon to take on Elon Musk’s Starlink, seen as animportant pieceof the highly anticipated SpaceX (SPAX.PVT) IPO. Globalstar shareholders will receive either $90 in cash or ⁠0.3210 shares of Amazon stock for each share of Globalstar they own, the companies said. Amazon has been building out its network of low Earth orbit satellites, with a goal of deploying 3,200 satellites ​by 2029. In comparison, SpaceX’s Starlink currently has about 10,000 satellites in orbit, according to Reuters. With this acquisition, Amazon will acquire Globalstar’s two dozen satellites, adding to its portfolio of 200 satellites in orbit. Amazon is also preparing to launch satellite internet services later this year. Read more here. EV maker Lucid (LCID) made a flurry of major announcements on Tuesday, naming a new CEO and securing much-needed investment, as the company sets itself up for its next evolution. Lucid named Silvio Napoli as its next chief exec, replacing interim CEO Marc Winterhoff, who will return to his role as COO. Napoli, who most recently served as CEO of the industrial company Schindler Group, will join Lucid as an executive director and board member, beginning April 15, 2026. Separately, Lucid also revealed it will receive $750 million in new investment. Ayar Third Investment Company, an affiliate of Saudi Arabia's Public Investment Fund (PIF), will purchase $550 million of Lucid preferred stock, with Uber (UBER) subsidiary SMB Holding Corporation investing $200 million via common stock.Lucid stock was trading higher in early trade, though shares are down a whopping 60% in the past year. Read more here. Yahoo Finance's Jared Blikre reports: Read more here. OpenAI (OPAI.PVT) is partnering with Wegovy maker Novo Nordisk (NVO) to deploy artificial intelligence across Novo Nordisk’s business and help streamline drug discov

[BRIEFING TRUNCATED — TOKEN_BUDGET REACHED]
